my son
if you become surety for your friend if
you shakin hands in pledge for a
stranger you are snared by the words of
your mouth you're taken by the words of
your mouth so do this my son and deliver
yourself for you have come into the hand
of your friend go and humble yourself
plead with your friend give no sleep to
your eyes nor slumber to your eyelids
deliver yourself like a gazelle from the
hand of the hunter and like a bird from
the hand of the Fowler go to the ant you
sluggard consider her ways of the wise
which having no captain overseer or
ruler provides her supplies in the
summer and gathers her food in the
harvest how long will you slumber o
sluggard when will you rise from your
sleep a little sleep a little slumber a
little folding of a hands to sleep so
shall your poverty come on you like a
prowler and your need like an armed man
a worthless person a wicked man walks
with a prefers mouth he winks with his
eyes he shuffles his feet he points with
his fingers perversity is in his heart
he devises evil continually
he shows discord therefore his calamity
shall come suddenly suddenly he shall be
broken without remedy these six things
the Lord hates yes seven are an
abomination to him a proud look a lying
tongue hands that shed innocent blood a
heart that devises wicked plans feet
that are Swift in running to evil a
false witness who speaks lies and one
who sews discord among brethren my son
keep your father's command and do not
forsake the lure of your mother bind
them continually upon your heart tie
them around your neck when you roam they
will lead you when you sleep they will
keep you and when you awake they will
speak with you for the commandment is a
lamp and the law
alight reproofs of instruction are the
way of life to keep you from the evil
woman from the flattering tongue of a
seductress do not lust after her beauty
in your heart nor let her alloy you with
her eyelids for by means of a harlot a
man is reduced to a crust of bread and
an adulteress will prey upon his
precious life can a man take fire to his
bosom and his clothes not be burned can
one walk on hot coals and his feet not
be seared so is he who goes into his
neighbor's wife whoever touches her
shall not be innocent people do not
despise a thief if he steals to satisfy
himself when he is starving yet when he
is found he must restore Sevenfold he
may have to give up all the substance of
his house whoever commits adultery with
a woman lacks understanding he who does
so destroys his own soul wounds and
dishonor he will get and his reproach
will not be wiped away for jealousy is a
husband's fury therefore he will not
spare in the day of vengeance he will
accept no recompense
nor will he be appeased though you give
many gifts
[Music]